swamy vivekananda story

Swami Vivekananda was a great social reformer and a very inspiring personality of India. 
Vivekananda was called by the name Narendranath Datta.. 
He was born in Kolkata on 12 January 1863 to Vishwanath Datta and Bhuvaneshwari Devi. 
His father was a successful attorney. 
He used to practice meditation even from his boyhood,
 and was associated with Brahmo Movement for some time.

At the threshold of youth Narendra had to pass through 
a period of spiritual crisis when he was assailed by doubts 
about the existence of God. In November 1881, Narendra went to meet
 Sri Ramakrishna who was staying at the Kali Temple in Dakshineshwar.
 Narendra became a frequent visitor to Dakshineshwar and under 
the guidance of the Sri Ramakrishna, he made rapid strides on the spiritual path.

After a few years two events took place which caused Narendra considerable 
distress, sudden death of his father in 1884 and Sri Ramakrishna in 1886. 
In the middle of 1890, Vivekananda left Baranagar Math and embarked on 
a long journey to explore and discover India. He went on a pilgrimage 
all over the country, studying the conditions of the people. 
Wherever he went, his magnetic personality created a great impression.

He decided to attend the World Parliament of Religions in order to 
spread his message in the West which was schedule to be held in Chicago
 in 1893. On the eve of his departure, he adopted the name of Swami Vivekananda.
 His speeches at the World's Parliament of Religions held in September
 1893 made him famous as an 'orator by divine right' and as a 'Messenger 
of Indian wisdom to the Western world'. For three years he spread the 
Vedanta philosophy and religion in America and England and then returned to India. 
He found the Ramakrishna Math and Mission on 1 May 1897. In 1898, he established Belur Math.

In June 1899 he leaves India for second visit to the West. He returned to Belur 
Math in December 1900. The rest of his life was spent in India, inspiring and 
guiding people. He has dedicated his life to guiding others for pure and true 
spiritual path. His health deteriorated and Swami Vivekananda breathed his 
last on 4 July 1902 at the Belur Math, leaving behind an immortal legacy not 
just in the hearts of his contemporaries, but for all generations to come.